feat(event_handler): improved support for headers and cookies in v2 (#1455)
awslabs/aws-lambda-powertools-python: docs/upgrade.md

---
title: Upgrade guide

> description: asdfasdf

Author: pr:
```suggestion
description: Guide to update between major Powertools versions
```

---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD043 -->

## Migrate to v2 from v1

> The transition from Powertools for Python v1 to v2 is as painless as possible, as we strove for minimal breaking changes.

Author: pr:
```suggestion
The transition from Powertools for Python v1 to v2 is as painless as possible, as we aimed for minimal breaking changes.
```

> The API for event handler's Response has minor changes, but we kept the breaking changes to a bare minimum. We've also added some new features to some components.

Author: ```suggestion
Changes at a glance:

* The API for **event handler's `Response`** has minor changes to support multi value headers and cookies.
```

???+ important
    Powertools for Python v2 drops suport for Python 3.6, following the Python 3.6 End-Of-Life (EOL) reached on December 23, 2021.

### Initial Steps

> Before starting, it is highly suggested to make a copy of your current working project or create a new branch with git.

Author: pr:
```suggestion
Before you start, we suggest making a copy of your current working project or create a new branch with git.
```

1. **Upgrade** Python to at least v3.7

2. **Ensure** you have the latest `aws-lambda-powertools`

    ```bash
    pip install aws-lambda-powertools -U
    ```

> 3. **Check** the following sections to see if any of your code is affected

Author: pr:
```suggestion
3. **Review** the following sections to confirm whether they affect your code
```

## Event Handler Response (headers and cookies)

> The `Response` class of the event handler utility was changed slightly:

Author: pr:
```suggestion
The `Response` class of the event handler utility changed slightly:
```

> 1. The `headers` parameter now has a type signature of `Dict[str, List[str]]`

Author: pr:
```suggestion
1. The `headers` parameter now expects a list of values per header (type `Dict[str, List[str]]`)
```

> 2. A new `cookies` parameter was added (type `List[str]`)

Author: pr:
```suggestion
2. We introduced a new `cookies` parameter (type `List[str]`)
```

```python hl_lines="6 12 13"
@app.get("/todos")
def get_todos():
    # Before
    return Response(
        # ...
        headers={"Content-Type": "text/plain"}
    )

    # After
    return Response(
        # ...
        headers={"Content-Type": ["text/plain"]},
        cookies=["CookieName=CookieValue"]
    )
```

In the same way, it can be more convenient to just append headers to the response object:

```python hl_lines="4 5"
@app.get("/todos")
def get_todos():
    response = Response(...)
    response.headers["Content-Type"].append("text/plain")
    response.cookies.append("CookieName=CookieValue")

> ```

Author: ```suggestion
```
